# PyCARL
Files to interface CARLsim to the pyNN framework.

# carlsim folder
1. /carlsim folder contains the python files required to interface pyNN to CARLsim4.
2. The contents of /carlsim are generated using the contents in the source folder. 
 


# source folder
1. Follow the steps below to compile a new pyNN interface (carlsim.i and carlsim_wrap.cxx) with the static library libcarsim.a (generated during a
   CARLsim build). (command also in the notes folder)


#####################################################################################  

Installation 

##################################################################################### 

1. Installing PyNN:  

$ pip install pyNN 

Or follow the instructions in  

http://neuralensemble.org/docs/PyNN/installation.html 

  

2. Compile and install PyCARL  

2.1 Clone the PyCARL repository to the CARLsim root.  

$ cd CARLsim4/PyCARL 

$ git clone https://github.com/adarshabalaji/PyCarlsim.git 

  

2.2 Compile and generate the pyNN -> carlsim  interface file (carlsim.py) 

2.2.1 Install SWIG:  

$ sudo apt update 

$ sudo apt install swig 

 

2.2.2 Compile and link the interface file (carlsim_wrap.cxx), generated by swig, with the libcarlsim.a library.  

$ cd source  

$ source build.sh 

This creates a static library _carlsim.so and a pyNN -> CARLsim interface (carlsim.py) 

 

**OPTIONAL** If you want to compile and link the interface file manually, then   

3. 1 Compile the carlsim.i (interface file) using SWIG 

$ cd source 

$ swig -c++ -python carlsim.i 

The output of the swig build is a wrapper file (carlsim_wrap.cxx) and the pyNN -> carlsim interface file (carlsim.py). 

 

3. 2 In the source folder, follow the steps below to compile a new pyNN interface (carlsim.i and carlsim_wrap.cxx) with the static library libcarsim.a (generated during a CARLsim build).  

$gcc -fPIC -c carlsim_wrap.cxx -I/usr/include/python<version> -I<CARLsim4 include dir> -I/usr/local/cuda/include -I/usr/local/cuda/samples/common/inc -D__NO_CUDA__ 

Update the above command with the python version of choice and the CARLsim4 installation directory. 

3.1 Link the carlsim_wrap.o file to the libcarlsim.a file.  

$ g++ -shared carlsim_wrap.o -o _carlsim.so 

$ g++ -shared ~/CARL/lib/libcarlsim.a carlsim_wrap.o -o _carlsim.so 

  

4. Copy the compiled sources and the carlsim/ folder in the pyCARL repo to pyNN.  

$ cp –r CARLsim4/pyCARL/carlsim <root of pyNN Installation>  

4.1 Copy the generated _carlsim.so and carlsim.py file to <root of pyNN Installation>/carlsim 

 

PyCARL is now integrated with pyNN.  
 

##################################################################################### 

List of APIs implemented.  

##################################################################################### 

1. Create spike generator group.  

##################################################################################### 

 

# Define the cell type for all the input groups 

inputCellType = sim.SpikeSourceArray("input", <numNeurons>, "EXCITATORY_NEURON", "CUBA") 

  

# create a population of <numNeurons> neurons of cellType inputCellType.   

spike_source = sim.Population(<numNeurons>, inputCellType, label='input') 

  

######################################################################################2. Create neuron groups.  

 pyCARL only supports Izhikevich neurons 

###################################################################################### 

  

# Define the inzhikevich cell type for the group 

izhikevichCellType = sim.Izhikevich("EXCITATORY_NEURON", a=0.02, b=0.2, c=-65, d=8) 

  

# create a pyNN population of <numNeurons> neurons of cellType izhikevichCellType 

gExc = sim.Population(<numNeurons>, izhikevichCellType, label='Exc') 



##################################################################################### 

3. Setup Network  

An equivalent for this function does not exist for pyNN.  

Therefore the user will have to call this CARLsim funciton directly in pyNN.  

######################################################################################sim.state.setupNetwork() 

##################################################################################### 

4. Run Network  

Input - rumtime in Ms 

##################################################################################### 

sim.run(<time in Ms>) 

 

##################################################################################### 

5. STDPMechanism for a group 

  

Input - rumtime in Ms 

##################################################################################### 

# define the properties of the STDP synapse.  

stdp_model = sim.STDPMechanism( 

                timing_dependence=sim.SpikePairRule(tau_plus=20.0, tau_minus=20.0, A_plus=0.01, A_minus=0.012), 

                weight_dependence=sim.AdditiveWeightDependence(w_min=0, w_max=0.0000001), 

                weight=0.00000005, 

                delay=delay, 

                dendritic_delay_fraction=float(options.dendritic_delay_fraction)) 

  

# connect the groups G1 and G2 using an all-to-all connector, with stdp enabled synapses.   

connections = sim.Projection(G1, G2, sim.AllToAllConnector(), stdp_model) 



##################################################################################### 

Connect function 

{'OneToOneConnector': 'one-to-one', 'AllToAllConnector': "full", "FixedProbabilityConnector": "random", "FromListConnector": "FromListConnector"} 

PyCARL only supports 'full', 'one-to-one' and 'random' connectors  

The corresponding  

###################################################################################### 

connectionID = sim.Projection(spike_source, neuron_group1, sim.OneToOneConnector(), synapse_type, receptor_type='excitatory') 
# test folder 
1. The test folder contains two files test.py and imageSmoothing.py
2. Test scripts written in pyNN format to test the pyNN+CARLsim4 interface. 
